# Movie-Recommendation-System

The goal of this project is to build a movie recommendation system using Non negative regularized matrix factorization without using any Machine Learning libraries on movie lens dataset

In a recommendation system such as Netflix or MovieLens, there is a group of users and a set of items (movies for the above two systems). Given that each users have rated some items in the system, we would like to predict how the users would rate the items that they have not yet rated, such that we can make recommendations to the users.

Recommendations can be generated by a wide range of algorithms. While user-based or item-based collaborative filtering methods are simple and intuitive, matrix factorization techniques are usually more effective because they allow us to discover the latent features underlying the interactions between users and items. Regularized Matrix factorization avoids overfitting. Refer these slides to understand better : http://www.slideshare.net/BenjaminBengfort/non-negative-matrix-factorization

I implmented Regularized Matrix factorization based on the following :

Movie Lens dataset, describes 5-star rating. It contains 21,000,000 ratings and 510,000 tag applications applied to 30,000 movies by 230,000 users.
Ratings.csv file is the rating file. Each line of this file after the header row represents one rating of one movie by one user, and has the following format: userId,movieId,rating,timestamp
Movie information is contained in the file movies.csv. Each line of this file after the header row represents one movie, and has the following format: movieId,title,genres
